WHO IS THE DATA CONTROLLER OF THE EPIDOSE -Device

How does the EPIDOSE app work? 


The EPIDOSE device has been designed so that only a User’s device processes or stores any identifiable personal data about that User. No entities are involved in the processing of any identifiable User personal data.

Each device using the EPIDOSE app generates random keys on a daily basis. Each daily key is called a Temporary Exposure Key (TEK). In each 24 hours period, other random codes, called Rolling Proximity Identifiers (RPIs), are generated every 15 minutes, based on the current Proximity Key. When a EPIDOSE app user comes into close contact with another EPIDOSE app user, their RPIs are exchanged using Bluetooth. RPIs for close contacts are stored in a user’s device for 14 days. No personally identifiable or location information is collected, stored, or exchanged.




If a user tests positive for COVID-19, they may choose to notify other EPIDOSE app users who may have had close contact with them. To trigger such notification, a user who tests positive for COVID-19 must enter a valid secret code, called teleTAN (tele Transaction Authorization Number) provided by the public health provider backend. The teleTAN is randomly generated by the public health authority and only used to enter a positive diagnosis in the EPIDOSE app. Once a valid teleTAN is entered into the EPIDOSE app, the TEKs, which are from now on called Diagnosis Keys (DKs), are uploaded to the health authority backend and from there are disseminated to the devices of other EPIDOSE app users. Once the EPIDOSE app receives a set of DKs, a risk calculation is made using the time, duration, and Bluetooth signal attenuation of the RPIs collected by the EPIDOSE app for each contact event between EPIDOSE app. EPIDOSE app users who are calculated to have been in close contact with the user who tested positive will be alerted that they encountered a possible exposure.







Furthermore, a user will have no obligation to notify the backend (thus to other Users) that he/she has been tested positive to COVID-19.



VOLUNTARY USE 
Using the EPIDOSE device is completely voluntary.
It is entirely up to you whether you acquire the device, which of the device’s features you use, and whether you share data with other individuals. 


USERS 
The device is aimed at people who are resident in Greece and at least 18 years old.
LEGAL BASIS : CONSENT / WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT

The legal basis is Art. 6(1) Sentence 1(a) GDPR and Art. 9(2)(a) GDPR [ in the case of health data or other special categories of personal data as indicated in Art. 9 (1)



Your data will be processed only if you have given your explicit consent beforehand.


You have the right to withdraw any consent you granted in the App at any time with effect for the future. Τhe withdrawal of consent will not affect the lawfulness of the processing before the withdrawal. 



Αny processing of your data that has already been carried out cannot be reversed. In particular, once your random IDs have been transmitted, there is no way of deleting these from other users’ devices.


To withdraw your consent, you can return the device.


 


PURPOSE SPECIFICATION-PURPOSE LIMITATION 

The EPIDOSE  device is intended for use to inform and notify individuals that they may have been exposed to a COVID-19-infected individual because they have been in the last 14 days in close contact/ proximity with someone who is infected with a virus and could potentially infect others. The identity of the infected individual is not revealed.


This device facilitates contact tracing in response to COVID-19.

PERSONAL DATA PROCESSED 
Τhe device has been programmed to collect and further process only personal data that is strictly necessary to fulfil the purpose of the app





Τhe device does not collect any data that would allow an authority or other users to infer your identity or location



The data processed by the device can be grouped into the following categories:

Access data - it is generated when you download DKs. Each time data is retrieved from the health authority’s server system, your IP address may be logged. The following data is also processed: ● Date and time of retrieval (time stamp) ● Transmitted data volume (or packet length) ● Notification of successful retrieval. 




This access data is only processed to secure and maintain the technical infrastructure. You are not identified personally as a user of the device and it is not possible to create a user profile. The IP address will not be saved beyond the end of the period of use





Contact/Exposure Your EPIDOSE device will continuously send out randomly generated identification numbers RPIs as explained above) via Bluetooth Low Energy, which other EPIDOSE devices in your vicinity can receive. Your EPIDOSE device, in turn, also receives the RPIs of the other EPIDOSE devices. In addition to the RPIs received from other devices, your device’s exposure logging functionality records and stores the following contact/exposure  data: ● Date and time of the contact ● Duration of the contact ● Bluetooth signal strength of the contact ● Encrypted metadata (protocol version and transmission strength). 
Your own RPIs and those received from other devices as well as the other contact data (date and time of the contact, duration of the contact, signal strength of the contact and encrypted metadata) are recorded by your device in an exposure log and currently stored there for 14 days.


Health data – 
The health data processed by the device are the DKs. 



Backend server 
The backend server only stores information of infected Users if they decide to share their status. The information that is stored is 
- 

the teleTAN, and 
- the DKs it has broadcast during the infectious window


DATA PROCESSING PRINCIPLES 

We collect and further process only personal data that is strictly necessary to fulfil the purpose of notifying individuals that they may have been exposed to a COVID-19-infected individual 

Data collected will be used only for the purposes of research and of system performance evaluation and proof-of-concept validation…


no entity, including the backend server, can track users based on broadcast ephemeral identifiers. 
- 

no entity beyond a user’s device processes or stores any identifiable personal data about the user. 


An entity/the server cannot learn the social graph , which is data that can easily be repurposed
and misused 

Retention period
All data stored in the device is deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the device features: The list of DKs of users who have shared a positive test result and the RPIs will be deleted from the device immediately, and also automatically deleted from your device’s exposure log after 14 days. 



Positive lists are deleted from all server systems after 14 days. All other data will be deleted after 21 days at the latest.





Who will receive your data?
If you get infected to COVID-19 and aim to warn other users voluntarily, your DKs from the last 14 days will be passed on to the other user’s EPIDOSE devices, via the server backend.

Rights of Users
Participants have the right to access to data pertaining/related to them that are collected and processed.
Users have the right to request information, access, rectification,  erasure (right to be forgotten) of their personal data or restriction of processing of personal data or to object to further processing (Articles 12 -21 GDPR) as well as the right to lodge a complaint to the – competent- Data Protection Authority. 

